Tutorial for analyzing instrumental learning data with the HDDMnnRL module
==========================================================================

This is a tutorial for using the HDDMrl module to simultaneously
estimate reinforcement learning parameters and decision parameters
within a fully hierarchical bayesian estimation framework, including
steps for sampling, assessing convergence, model fit, parameter
recovery, and posterior predictive checks (model validation). The module
uses the reinforcement learning drift diffusion model (RLDDM), a
reinforcement learning model that replaces the standard “softmax” choice
function with a drift diffusion process. The softmax and drift diffusion
process is equivalent for capturing choice proportions, but the DDM also
takes RT distributions into account; options are provided to also only
fit RL parameters without RT. The RLDDM estimates trial-by-trial drift
rate as a scaled difference in expected rewards (expected reward for
upper bound alternative minus expected reward for lower bound
alternative). Expected rewards are updated with a delta learning rule
using either a single learning rate or with separate learning rates for
positive and negative prediction errors. The model also includes the
standard DDM-parameters. The RLDDM is described in detail in `Pedersen,
Frank & Biele
(2017). <http://ski.clps.brown.edu/papers/PedersenEtAl_RLDDM.pdf>`__
(Note this approach differs from Frank et al (2015) who used HDDM to fit
instrumental learning but did not allow for simultaneous estimation of
learning parameters).

.. code:: ipython3

    import hddm
    import pickle
    import pandas as pd

Load the data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    with open('./angle_d1_c3_s20_t500.pickle', 'rb') as handle:
        datafile = pickle.load(handle)
    
    # Here, datafile is saved as a list of datasets. We pick the first dataset.
    dataset = datafile[0]


.. parsed-literal::

    1


.. code:: ipython3

    # Reformat the dataset as a dataframe
    data = hddm.utils.get_dataset_as_dataframe_rlssm(dataset)

Initialize the HDDMnnRL model and sample
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    # Specify number of samples and burnins
    nsamples = 100
    nburn = 50

.. code:: ipython3

    m = hddm.HDDMnnRL(data, model='angle', rl_rule='RWupdate', non_centered=True, include=['v', 'a', 't', 'z', 'theta', 'rl_alpha'], p_outlier = 0.0)
    m.sample(nsamples, burn=nburn, dbname='traces.db', db='pickle')


.. parsed-literal::

    
    Printing model specifications -- 
    ssm:  angle
    rl rule:  RWupdate
    using non-centered dist.:  False
    Using default priors: Uninformative
    Supplied model_config specifies params_std_upper for  z as  None.
    Changed to 10
    Supplied model_config specifies params_std_upper for  rl_alpha as  None.
    Changed to 10
     [-----------------101%-----------------] 101 of 100 complete in 256.1 sec



.. parsed-literal::

    <pymc.MCMC.MCMC at 0x7f5b5c224f10>



Save the model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    # Save the model
    m.save('rlssm_model')

.. code:: ipython3

    # Load the model
    # model = hddm.load('rlssm_model')

Check the posterior results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    m.plot_posteriors()


.. parsed-literal::

    Plotting v
    Plotting v_std
    Plotting a
    Plotting a_std
    Plotting z
    Plotting z_std
    Plotting t
    Plotting t_std
    Plotting theta
    Plotting theta_std
    Plotting rl_alpha
    Plotting rl_alpha_std



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_1.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_2.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_3.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_4.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_5.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_6.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_7.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_8.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_9.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_10.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_11.png



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_12_12.png


.. code:: ipython3

    # Load the trace
    with open('./traces.db', 'rb') as handle:
        tracefile = pickle.load(handle)

.. code:: ipython3

    # Re-format traces as a dataframe
    traces = hddm.utils.get_traces_rlssm(tracefile)

.. code:: ipython3

    model_ssm = 'angle'
    model_rl = 'RWupdate'
    
    config_ssm = hddm.model_config.model_config[model_ssm]
    config_rl = hddm.model_config_rl.model_config_rl[model_rl]

.. code:: ipython3

    hddm.plotting.plot_posterior_pairs_rlssm(tracefile, config_ssm['params'] + config_rl['params'])

Posterior Predictive Checks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code:: ipython3

    num_posterior_samples = 3
    p_lower = {0: 0.15, 1:0.30, 2:0.45}
    p_upper = {0: 0.85, 1:0.70, 2:0.55}
    ppc_sdata = hddm.plotting.gen_ppc_rlssm(model_ssm, config_ssm, model_rl, config_rl, data, traces, num_posterior_samples, p_lower, p_upper, save_data=True, save_name='ppc_data')


.. parsed-literal::

    100%|██████████| 3/3 [05:49<00:00, 116.55s/it]


.. parsed-literal::

    ppc data saved at ./ppc_data.csv


.. code:: ipython3

    # Load the saved ppc data
    # ppc_sdata = pd.read_csv('./ppc_data.csv')

.. code:: ipython3

    _ = hddm.plotting.plot_ppc_choice_rlssm(data, ppc_sdata, 40, 10)



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_20_0.png


.. code:: ipython3

    _ = hddm.plotting.plot_ppc_rt_rlssm(data, ppc_sdata, 40, 0.06)



.. image:: demo_HDDMnnRL_files/demo_HDDMnnRL_21_0.png


